Propose a new file structure (ADR) (#1678)
primer/react: contributor-docs/adrs/adr-XXX-file-structure.md

> # ADR XXX: Isolating behaviors through custom clements and vanilla JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# ADR XXX: File structure
```

## Status

Proposed

## Context

Components might be more grokable if they were structured consistently

## Decision

```
primer-react/
├─ src/
│  ├─ BreadCrumbs/
│  │  ├─ index.ts                    // Just re-exporting?
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.tsx             // Primary component
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbsItem.tsx         // Subcomponent
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.mdx             // Documentation. Always .mdx, not .md
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.stories.tsx
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.test.tsx

> │  │  └─ BreadCrumbs.types.test.tsx

Reviewer 2: @colebemis also talked about possibly adding a yaml file to export things like component status? Though with the mdx file already in there, we may not need it.

Reviewer: Looks like Braid Design System does something similar: https://github.com/seek-oss/braid-design-system/tree/master/lib/components/Accordion

Author: Yes! I think I like the idea of a separate `BreadCrumbs.yml` even though we could use front matter. I imagine it might inform some unit tests and behaviors outside of docs.

# ADR XXX: File structure

## Status

Proposed

## Context

Components might be more grokable if they were structured consistently

## Decision

```
primer-react/
├─ src/
│  ├─ BreadCrumbs/
│  │  ├─ index.ts                    // Just re-exporting?
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.tsx             // Primary component
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbsItem.tsx         // Subcomponent
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.mdx             // Documentation. Always .mdx, not .md
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.stories.tsx
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.test.tsx
│  │  └─ BreadCrumbs.types.test.tsx
┆  ┆
```

Questions I would like to settle in this ADR:

- On subcomponents:

>   - Do subcomponents filenames need to be namespaced with the parent component? (e.g., `BreadCrumbsItem.tsx` vs `Item.tsx`)

Reviewer 3: ➕ : Makes searching for related files easier in the IDE

Reviewer 4: Have to say first - super happy to go with what the majority of the team prefers. very loosely help opinions.

Aw, I was going to vote ➖ on this because it is scoped inside the component folder: `src/Breadcrumb/Item.tsx`.

For example, in VS Code, i would search for "action item" to look for `ActionList/Item`

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1863771/144937089-455fc4b5-3008-4f1e-8003-e0a116120e78.png)

Reviewer 5: FWIW I prefer the longer, more descriptive file name.

Reviewer 5: FWIW, I prefer the longer more descriptive name.

>   - Should the `index.ts` in each component directory export every subcomponent under its own name, or should we prefer `Object.assign`ing subcomponents to the parent component?

Reviewer 3: Could it depend on whether the subcomponent is private to its parent and not intended for composition? I.e. With a compound component, I'd expect it the parent component to be the only one exported from the folder. Might be misunderstanding this point though.

Author: I think I've seen two different styles:
1. `BreadCrumbsItem`, which isn't exported on their own and is only accessed as `BreadCrumbs.Item`
2. `ButtonDanger`, which is available as its own export.
it is reasonable to me that those are different, as `BreadCrumbsItem` only makes sense as a child of `BreadCrumbs`.... and maybe we could name that as a rule? Alternately, we could consolidate to one style, right?

>   - Should subcomponents always have their own test files? What about type tests and stories?

Reviewer 5: I don't think so. There are going to be subcomponents that rely on some context to get passed down from the parent.

> - Would this structure help if we wanted to move toward one-package-per-component like react-aria does?

Reviewer 3: This approach totally opens doors to this and makes codesplitting much easier to maintain. Big ➕

Author: I think that makes sense — personally I don't know enough about what makes tree shaking possible or not possible to be confident that separate packages are actually necessary.

> - Could we set a standard for replacement components? E.g., NewButton vs. Button2

Author: Ohh interesting — can you say more about why you like that?

I hesitate because it'd mean advancing the status of a component from propsed -> alpha would have to be a breaking change, right?

> - Could we set a standard for replacement components? E.g., NewButton vs. Button2

Reviewer 4: > I hesitate because it'd mean advancing the status of a component from proposed -> alpha would have to be a breaking change, right?

Don't think so. we should use `drafts` for replacement components which can be at a more advanced maturity than their current counterpart. For example, ActionList v1 is alpha but ActionList v2 can be at beta maturity while being in drafts. This is why we chose drafts over other names. More context here: https://github.com/primer/react/pull/1609#issue-1053897027

I like it more because it matches the bundle scope. `drafts` are not part of the main bundle.

# ADR XXX: File structure

## Status

Proposed

## Context

Components might be more grokable if they were structured consistently. This ADR proposes conventions

## Decision

TL;DR:

```
primer-react/
├─ src/
│  ├─ Breadcrumbs/
│  │  ├─ index.ts                    // Just re-exporting?
│  │  ├─ Breadcrumbs.tsx             // Primary component

> │  │  ├─ BreadcrumbsItem.tsx         // Subcomponent (include item name for findability in most IDEs)

Reviewer: Not sure what "item name" means here
```suggestion
│  │  ├─ BreadcrumbsItem.tsx         // Subcomponent (include parent component name to increase findability in most IDEs)
```

# ADR XXX: File structure

## Status

Proposed

## Context

Components might be more grokable if they were structured consistently. This ADR proposes conventions

## Decision

TL;DR:

```
primer-react/
├─ src/

> │  ├─ BreadCrumbs/

Reviewer: Nit: `Breadcrumbs` is one word
```suggestion
│  ├─ Breadcrumbs/
```

https://primer.style/react/Breadcrumbs

│  │  ├─ index.ts                    // Just re-exporting?
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.tsx             // Primary component
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbsItem.tsx         // Subcomponent (include item name for findability in most IDEs)
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.mdx             // Documentation. Always .mdx, not .md
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.stories.tsx
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.test.tsx        // Unit tests
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.types.test.tsx  // Type tests
│  │  ├─ BreadCrumbs.yml             // Component metadata (Possible future)
│  │  └─ __snapshots__/
┆  ┆
```

### Rules

- Every component should have its own PascalCased directory directly under `src/`

> - Subcomponents meant to be used as children of their parent component should be properties of the exported component (e.g., `BreadCrumbs.Item`)

Reviewer: Does this mean that the `Object.assign` happens in `Breadcrumbs.tsx` or `index.tsx`?

Author: I didn't mean to specify — but if you think this should I'm fine with that!

Reviewer: We can add more rules to this doc as we form opinions. So I guess it's fine to be vague now.

IMO, the `Object.assign` should happen in `Breadcrumbs.tsx`. `index.tsx` seems mostly like an implementation detail to make imports nicer

Author: Should index.tsx export default or named?

Reviewer: Hmm. I lean towards named export. In general, I'm not a big fan of default exports (unless they're necessary for some reason)

> - Subcomponents meant to be used on their own should be exported as a named export (e.g., `ButtonDanger`)

Reviewer: Is this a pattern we want to encourage?

I'd argue that it's not a "subcomponent" if it's exported on its own. If it's not a property of a parent component, I think it should probably have it's own directory.

Author: I like simple rules.... but thinking about that with `ButtonDanger`.... that doesn't feel like it merits its own component, and I'm not sure I'd want that to just be a prop on Button (i.e., `<Button variant="danger"...`). Would you say `ButtonDanger` should have its own directory?

Reviewer: >  I'm not sure I'd want that to just be a prop on Button (i.e., <Button variant="danger"...)

`ButtonDanger` is going away in favor of a `variant` prop. @pksjce's `Button2` uses that API.

Author: Okay cool. That settles it then :-)
